Helm install script (#27)
redhat-developer/rhdh-chart: scripts/install.md

> ## **Documentation for the script to handle CLI helm installation for OCP**

Reviewer: why not just...

```suggestion
## **Helm CLI installation for OCP**
```

?

## **Prerequisites**

1. Ensure that `oc` (for OpenShift) is installed. See https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.16/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#installing-openshift-cli for further instructions.
2. Ensure that you are logged into an OCP cluster and that it is running. See [Logging in to the OpenShift CLI](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/openshift_container_platform/4.16/html/cli_tools/openshift-cli-oc#cli-logging-in_cli-developer-commands).
3. git
4. [Helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)

## **Installation Steps**

1. **Download the Script** - Clone the repository and navigate to the `scripts` directory: 

     ```shell
      git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-chart.git
      cd rhdh-charts/scripts
    ```

2. **Run the Script** - Execute the script to install the Helm chart. The script will automatically detect that you are using `oc` and ensure you are logged into your cluster. \
`./install.sh`

> 3. **Specify Router Base** - If the script cannot automatically detect the cluster router base, you can provide it manually using the `--router-base` flag, example:\

Reviewer: should items 3 - 7 be under a "Usage" section? This sequential numbering after steps 1 and 2 imply that you also have to run 5 more steps...

      `./install.sh --router-base <your-router-base>`

4. **Specify Release Name** - To install the Helm chart with a custom release name: \
   `./install.sh --release-name myrelease`

5. **Generate a Release Name** - To generate a name for the Helm release: \
    `./install.sh --generate-name`

6. **Specify Namespace** - To specify the namespace for the Helm release: \
`./install.sh --namespace mynamespace`

7. **Specify Custom Values File** - To use a custom values file for the Helm chart: \
   `./install.sh --values /path/to/values.yaml`

## **Troubleshooting**

> * Missing <code>oc</code> - </strong> If the script outputs an error indicating <code>oc</code> is not installed, please install the CLI tool for your cluster:

Reviewer: why only mention `oc` ? `helm` is also required. https://github.com/redhat-developer/rhdh-chart/pull/27/files#diff-e076e43cb817ecc8b3c2ed18cd58baa50544ecc66293ed6e61129c43ca6a09ccR53-R60

    * For OpenShift: Install <code>oc</code>

> * <strong>Not Logged Into Cluster: </strong> If you are not logged into a cluster, follow these steps to log in:

Reviewer: this is only one step. And this could be simplified to:

```suggestion
* <strong>Not Logged Into Cluster: </strong> To log in to your cluster using the `oc` command, see https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-logging-in_cli-developer-commands
```

    * For OpenShift:

>  `oc login <your-cluster-url>`

Reviewer: better to link to the official guide https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.13/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-logging-in_cli-developer-commands which explains more than just the single commandline option... like passing in tokens and usernames and passwords...

> * <strong>Router Base Detection Failed: - </strong> If the script cannot detect the cluster router base, manually provide it using the <code>--router-base</code> flag as shown in the example usage section.

Reviewer: this is already covered by an error message IN the script. Does it need to ALSO be in a readme?

Author: I would say yes because it provides user awareness just in case users might not read the entire script or miss the error message when running it, also since its the md file it felt complete to cover common issues and troubleshooting steps even if it caused slight repetition.

Reviewer: true but "as shown in the example usage section points to the same usage and doesn't elaborate. So you have the same instructions 3 times now:
* example
* troubleshooting
* the script's output itself

This means if we have to update the code, you have to ALSO update the doc in 2 other places. You're making extra maintenance work for yourself here. 

And you haven't yet explained that `<your-router-base>` should be `apps.yourcluster-goes-here.tld`, as the example doesn't actually provide an example. 

Finally, there is no "example usage section" ... do you mean the **Installation Steps** section?

* <strong>Error: INSTALLATION FAILED:</strong>

>      An error occurred while checking for chart dependencies. You may need to run `helm dependency build` to fetch missing dependencies: found in Chart.yaml, but missing in charts/ directory: common, backstage:

Reviewer: if this can happen, why are we not just DOING it as part of the script?? Why leave it as a "haha gotcha" for the user?

  `helm dependency build`

An example of the installation output should be:

> Using router base: example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using router base: apps.example.com
```

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/37ccd18a-e1d7-4f37-b720-1dd41f02b644)

> NAME: ...

Reviewer: are these empty lines really helpful? would sample content in there be more helpful than `...` ? what are you trying to tell the user here, just the list of metadata names, but not actually any sample data?

LAST DEPLOYED: ...

NAMESPACE: ...

STATUS: ...

REVISION: ...

Helm installation completed successfully.

> You can run: `helm list --namespace $myProject` to confirm this installation.

Reviewer: should we run this at the end of the install to verify installation worked?

Author: yep i would say running `helm list --namespace $myProject` at the end of the script serves as additional manual check for the user and we do already have a condition at the end of the script to verify the installation.

Reviewer: I guess this does align with the standard RH doc approach of "do a thing" then "verify it was thing'd correctly by running this other thing"

`git clone <https://github.com/><your-username>/rhdh-chart.git
cd rhdh-chart/scripts`

2. **Make the Script Executable** - Before running the script, make sure it has executable permissions: \
`chmod +x install.sh`

3. **Run the Script** - Execute the script to install the Helm chart. The script will automatically detect that you are using `oc` and ensure you are logged into your cluster. \
`./install.sh`

   **Specify Router Base** - If the script cannot automatically detect the cluster router base, you can provide it manually using the `-router-base` flag, example:\
      `./install.sh --router-base <your-router-base>`

4. **Specify Release Name** - To install the Helm chart with a custom release name: \
`./install.sh --release-name myrelease`

    **Generate a Release Name** - To generate a name for the Helm release: \
    `./install.sh --generate-name`

5. **Specify Namespace** - To specify the namespace for the Helm release: \
`./install.sh --namespace mynamespace`

    **Specify Custom Values File** - To use a custom values file for the Helm chart: \
   `./install.sh --values /path/to/values.yaml`

## **Troubleshooting**

> * Missing <code>oc</code> - </strong> If the script outputs an error indicating that neither <code>oc</code> nor <code>kubectl</code> is installed, please install the appropriate CLI tool for your cluster:

Reviewer 2: I guess this bullet point is no longer necessary since the script only picks `oc`.

    * For OpenShift: Install <code>oc</code>
    * For Kubernetes: Install <code>kubectl</code>
    

* <strong>Not Logged Into Cluster: </strong> If you are not logged into a cluster, follow these steps to log in: 
    * For OpenShift:
 `oc login <your-cluster-url>`

* <strong>Router Base Detection Failed: - </strong> If the script cannot detect the cluster router base, manually provide it using the <code>--router-base</code> flag as shown in the example usage section. 

* <strong>Error: INSTALLATION FAILED:</strong>

     An error occurred while checking for chart dependencies. You may need to run `helm dependency build` to fetch missing dependencies: found in Chart.yaml, but missing in charts/ directory: common, backstage:
  `helm dependency build`

An example of the installation output should be:

Using router base: example.com

NAME: ...

LAST DEPLOYED: ...

NAMESPACE: ...

STATUS: ...

REVISION: ...

Helm installation completed successfully.

> You can run: `helm version` to confirm this installation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can run: `helm list --namespace $myProject` to confirm this installation.
```

`helm version` only returns the version of Helm. [`helm list`](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_list/) (or `helm ls`) will list the installed releases.
